---
KnowledgeArea: "[[13 Stakeholder Management]]"
ProcessGroup: "[[Planning]]"
ToolsTechniques:
  - "[[Benchmarking]]"
EEFs:
  - "[[Culture]]"
  - "[[Political Climate]]"
  - "[[Organizational Governance Framework]]"
  - "[[Personnel Administration and Development]]"
  - "[[Communication Channels, Tools, Systems, Means, Methods, Strategies]]"
  - "[[Global, Regional, Local Trends, Practices, Habits]]"
  - "[[Geographic Distribution of Facilities and Resources]]"
  - "[[Risk Appetite]]"
  - "[[Risk Threshold]]"
OPAs:
  - "[[Social Media, Ethics, Security Policies and Procedures]]"
  - ""
  - "[[Issue, Risk, Change, Data Management Policies and Procedures]]"
  - "[[Communication Requirements]]"
  - "[[Guidelines for Development, Exchange, Storage, Retrieval of Information]]"
  - "[[Lessons Learned Repository]]"
tags:
  - "#pmbok6/process"
TimesPerformed: "Throughout the project"
Description: "[[13.2 Plan Stakeholder Engagement#Description|📝]]"
Page: 512
PMBOK Section: "13.2"
---
# Description
Developing approaches to involve project stakeholders based on their needs, expectations, interests, and potential impact on the project.
## Key Benefits
Provides an actionable plan to interact effectively with stakeholders.
## Times Performed
`=this.TimesPerformed`
# Inputs
## [[Project Charter]]
## #project-management-plan s
- [[Resource Management Plan]] — may contain [[Information]] regarding [[Roles and Responsibilities]] of the [[Team]] and other [[Stakeholders]] listed in the [[Stakeholder Register]].
- [[Communications Management Plan]] — communications strategies for stakeholder management and their implementation plans.
- [[Risk Management Plan]] — risk thresholds or risk attitudes that can assist in the selection of the optimal [[Stakeholder Engagement]] strategy mix.
## Project Documents
- [[Assumption Log]] — contains [[Information]] about [[Assumption]]s and [[Constraint]]s and may be linked to specific [[Stakeholders]].
- [[Change Log]] — contains changes to the original scope of the project. It usually links to specific [[Stakeholders]] because they fall into categories of requesting certain changes, making decisions about [[change requests]], or being impacted by the implementation of approved changes.
- [[Issue Log]] — Managing and resolving issues contained in the [[Issue Log]]  will require additional communications with the stakeholders affected.
- [[Project Schedule]] — contains activities that may be linked to specific stakeholders as owners or executors.
- [[Risk Register]] — contains the identified risks of the project and usually links them to the specific stakeholders as either [[Risk Owner]]s or as subject to risk impact.
- [[Stakeholder Register]]
## [[Agreement]]s
## Enterprise Environmental Factors
```dataview
TABLE WITHOUT ID rows.file.link as "EEFs", Category
FROM #influences/eef
WHERE contains(this.EEFs, file.link)
GROUP BY Category
```
## Organizational Process Assets
```dataview
TABLE WITHOUT ID rows.file.link as "OPAs", Category
FROM #influences/opa
WHERE contains(this.OPAs, file.link)
GROUP BY Category
```
# Tools & Techniques
## [[Expert Judgment]]
- [[Politics and Power]]
- [[Culture]]
- [[Communication Channels, Tools, Systems, Means, Methods, Strategies]]
- [[Similar Projects]]
## Data Gathering
- [[Benchmarking]] — The results of stakeholder analysis are compared with [[Information]] from other organizations or other projects that are considered to be world class.
## Data Analysis
- [[Assumption and Constraint Analysis]] — Analysis of current [[Assumption]]s and [[Constraint]]s may be conducted in order to tailor appropriate engagement strategies.
- [[Root Cause Analysis]] — identifies underlying reasons for the level of support of project stakeholders in order to select the appropriate strategy to improve their level of engagement.
## Decision-Making
- [[Prioritization]] — Stakeholder requirements need to be prioritized and ranked, as do the stakeholders themselves. Stakeholders with the most interest and the highest influence are often prioritized at the top of the list.
## Data Representation
- [[Mind Mapping]] — visually organize [[Information]] about stakeholders and their relationship to each other and the organization.
- [[Stakeholder Engagement Assessment Matrix]]
## Meetings
- [[Management Planning|Planning]]
# Outputs
- [[Stakeholder Engagement Plan]]