---
KnowledgeArea: "[[13 Stakeholder Management]]"
ProcessGroup: "[[Executing]]"
ToolsTechniques:
EEFs:
  - "[[Culture]]"
  - "[[Political Climate]]"
  - "[[Organizational Governance Framework]]"
  - "[[Personnel Administration and Development]]"
  - "[[Risk Appetite]]"
  - "[[Risk Threshold]]"
  - "[[Communication Channels, Tools, Systems, Means, Methods, Strategies]]"
  - "[[Global, Regional, Local Trends, Practices, Habits]]"
  - "[[Geographic Distribution of Facilities and Resources]]"
OPAs:
  - "[[Social Media, Ethics, Security Policies and Procedures]]"
  - ""
  - "[[Issue, Risk, Change, Data Management Policies and Procedures]]"
  - "[[Communication Requirements]]"
  - "[[Guidelines for Development, Exchange, Storage, Retrieval of Information]]"
  - "[[Historical Information]]"
  - "[[Similar Projects]]"
tags:
  - "#pmbok6/process"
TimesPerformed: "Throughout the project"
Description: "[[13.3 Manage Stakeholder Engagement#Description|📝]]"
Page: 523
PMBOK Section: "13.3"
---
# Description
Communicating and working with [[Stakeholders]] to meet their [[Need]]s and expectations, address issues, and foster appropriate [[Stakeholders]] involvement.
## Activities
- Engaging [[Stakeholders]] at appropriate stages to obtain, confirm, or maintain their continued commitment to the [[Success Measures|Success]].
- Managing [[Stakeholders]] expectations through [[negotiation]] and communication
- Addressing any [[Risk]]s or potential concerns related to [[13 Stakeholder Management]] and anticipating future [[Issue]]s that may be raised by [[Stakeholders]]
- Clarifying and resolving [[Issue]]s that have been identified
## Key Benefits
Allows the [[Project Manager]] to increase support and minimize resistance from [[Stakeholders]].
## Times Performed
`=this.TimesPerformed`
# Inputs
## #project-management-plan s
- [[Communications Management Plan]] — describes the methods, formats, and technologies used for stakeholder communication.
- [[Risk Management Plan]] — describes the risk categories, risk appetites, and reporting formats that can be used to manage stakeholder engagement.
- [[Stakeholder Engagement Plan]] — provides guidance and [[Information]] on managing stakeholder expectations.
- [[Change Management Plan]] — describes the process for submitting, evaluating and implementing changes to the project.
## Project Documents
- [[Change Log]] — [[Change requests]] and their status are documented in the [[Change Log]] and communicated to the appropriate [[Stakeholders]].
- [[Issue Log]] — Any project or stakeholder concerns are documented in the [[Issue Log]] , as well as any assigned action items associated with managing the [[Issue]].
- [[Lessons Learned Register]] — can be applied in later phases of the project to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of engaging stakeholders.
- [[Stakeholder Register]]
## Enterprise Environmental Factors
```dataview
TABLE WITHOUT ID rows.file.link as "EEFs", Category
FROM #influences/eef
WHERE contains(this.EEFs, file.link)
GROUP BY Category
```
## Organizational Process Assets
```dataview
TABLE WITHOUT ID rows.file.link as "OPAs", Category
FROM #influences/opa
WHERE contains(this.OPAs, file.link)
GROUP BY Category
```
# Tools & Techniques
## [[Expert Judgment]]
- [[Politics and Power]]
- [[Culture]]
- [[Communication Channels, Tools, Systems, Means, Methods, Strategies]]
- [[Similar Projects]]
- [[Requirements Management]]
- [[Vendor Management]]
- [[Change Management]]
## Communication Skills
- [[Feedback]]
## Interpersonal and Team Skills
- [[Conflict Management]]
- [[Cultural Awareness]] — to help the [[Project Manager]] and [[Team]] to communicate effectively by considering cultural differences and the requirements of [[Stakeholders]].
- [[Negotiation]]  — to achieve support or agreement that supports the work of the project or its outcomes and to resolve conflicts within the team or with other stakeholders.
- [[Observation, Conversation]] — to stay in touch with the work and attitudes of project team members and other stakeholders.
- [[Political Awareness]]
## [[Ground Rules]]
## Meetings
- [[Decision Making]]
- [[Issue]] Resolution
- [[Lessons Learned]]
- [[Retrospective]]
- [[Kick-Off]]
- [[Iteration Planning]]
- [[Status Meeting]]
# Outputs
- [[Change Requests]] — As a result of managing stakeholder engagement, changes to the project scope or [[Product Scope]] may emerge.
- [[Project Management Plan]] updates
	- [[Communications Management Plan]] — to reflect new or changed stakeholder requirements.
	- [[Stakeholder Engagement Plan]] — to reflect new or changed management strategies required to effectively engage stakeholders.
- Project Documents updates
	- [[Change Log]] — may be updated based on any change requests.
	- [[Issue Log]] — may be updated to reflect an update to, or the development of, an [[Issue Log]]  entry.
	- [[Lessons Learned Register]] — is updated with effective or ineffective approaches to managing [[Stakeholder Engagement]] so that [[Information]] can be used in the current or [[future projects]].
	- [[Stakeholder Register]] — may be updated based on new [[Information]] provided to stakeholders about resolved issues, approved changes, and general project status.