---
KnowledgeArea: "[[13 Stakeholder Management]]"
ProcessGroup: "[[Monitoring and Controlling]]"
ToolsTechniques: 
EEFs:
  - "[[Culture]]"
  - "[[Political Climate]]"
  - "[[Organizational Governance Framework]]"
  - "[[Personnel Administration and Development]]"
  - "[[Risk Appetite]]"
  - "[[Risk Threshold]]"
  - "[[Communication Channels, Tools, Systems, Means, Methods, Strategies]]"
  - "[[Global, Regional, Local Trends, Practices, Habits]]"
  - "[[Geographic Distribution of Facilities and Resources]]"
OPAs:
  - "[[Social Media, Ethics, Security Policies and Procedures]]"
  - "[[Issue, Risk, Change, Data Management Policies and Procedures]]"
  - "[[Communication Requirements]]"
  - "[[Guidelines for Development, Exchange, Storage, Retrieval of Information]]"
  - "[[Historical Information]]"
  - "[[Similar Projects]]"
tags:
  - "#pmbok6/process"
TimesPerformed: Throughout the project
Description: "[[13.4 Monitor Stakeholder Engagement#Description|📝]]"
Page: 530
Section: "13.4"
---
# Description
Monitoring project stakeholder relationships and [[Tailoring]] strategies for engaging [[Stakeholders]] through modification of engagement strategies and plans.
## Key Benefits
Maintains or increases the efficiency and effectiveness of stakeholder engagement activities as the project evolves and its environment changes.
## Times Performed
`=this.TimesPerformed`
# Inputs
- [[Project Management Plan]]
	- [[Resource Management Plan]] — identifies the methods for [[Team]] member management.
	- [[Communications Management Plan]] — describes the plans and strategies for communication to the[[Stakeholders]].
	- [[Stakeholder Engagement Plan]] — defines the plan for managing [[Stakeholders]] needs and expectations.
- Project Documents
	- [[Issue Log]] — documents all the known issues related to the project and stakeholders.
	- [[Lessons Learned Register]] — can be applied in later phases of the project to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of engaging stakeholders.
	- [[Risk Register]] — contains the identified risks for the project, including those related to stakeholder engagement and interactions, their categorization, and list of potential responses.
	- [[Stakeholder Register]]
- [[Work Performance Data]] — which stakeholders are supportive, and their level and type of [[Stakeholder Engagement|engagement]].
## Enterprise Environmental Factors
```dataview
TABLE WITHOUT ID rows.file.link as "EEFs", Category
FROM #eef
WHERE contains(this.EEFs, file.link)
GROUP BY Category
```
## Organizational Process Assets
```dataview
TABLE WITHOUT ID rows.file.link as "OPAs", Category
FROM #opa
WHERE contains(this.OPAs, file.link)
GROUP BY Category
```
# Tools & Techniques
- Data Analysis
	- [[Alternatives Analysis]] — to evaluate options to respond to [[Variance]]s in the desired results of [[Stakeholder Engagement]].
	- [[Root Cause Analysis]] — to determine the basic underlying reason that [[Stakeholder Engagement]] is not having the planned effect.
	- [[Stakeholder Analysis]] — to determine the position of [[Stakeholders]] groups and individuals at any particular time.
- Decision-Making
	- [[Multicriteria Decision Analysis]] — [[Criteria]] for successful [[Stakeholder Engagement]] are prioritized and weighted to identify the most appropriate choice.
	- [[Voting]] — o select the best response for a [[Variance]] in [[Stakeholder Engagement]].
- Data Representation
	- [[Stakeholder Engagement Assessment Matrix]] — monitors stakeholder engagement through tracking changes in level of [[Stakeholder Engagement|engagement]] for each stakeholder.
- Communication Skills
	- [[Feedback]] — to ensure that the [[Information]] to [[Stakeholders]] is received and understood.
	- [[Presentations]] — to provide clear [[Information]] to [[Stakeholders]].
- Interpersonal and Team Skills
	- [[Active Listening]] — to reduce misunderstandings and other miscommunication.
	- [[Cultural Awareness]] — to [[10.1 Plan Communications Management|Plan Communications]] based on the [[Culture|cultural]] differences and [[requirement]]s of [[Stakeholders]] and [[Team]] members.
	- [[Leadership]] — to communicate the [[Product Vision|vision]] and inspire [[Stakeholders]] to support the work and [[Project Outcome]]s.
	- [[Networking]] — ensures access to [[Information]] about levels of [[Stakeholder Engagement]].
	- [[Political Awareness]] — to understand the [[Organizational Strategy]], understand who wields [[Authority|power]] and influence in this arena, and to develop an ability to communicate with these [[Stakeholders]].
- Meetings — to monitor and assess [[Stakeholder Engagement]] levels.
	- [[Status Meeting]]
	- [[Daily Standup]]
	- [[Retrospective]]
# Outputs
- [[Work Performance Information]] — [[Information]] about the status of [[Stakeholder Engagement]], such as the level of current support and compared to the desired levels of [[Stakeholder Engagement|engagement]] as defined in the [[stakeholder engagement assessment matrix]], [[Stakeholder Mapping (Representation)#Stakeholder cube|stakeholder cube]], or other tool.
- [[Project Management Plan]] updates
	- [[Resource Management Plan]] — Team responsibilities for [[Stakeholder Engagement]] activities may need to be updated.
	- [[Communications Management Plan]]
	- [[Stakeholder Engagement Plan]]
- Project Documents updates
	- [[Issue Log]] — [[Information]] indicates stakeholder attitudes.
	- [[Lessons Learned Register]] — is updated with [[Information]] on challenges and how they could have been avoided and with approaches that worked well for engaging [[Stakeholders]] optimally, and those that did not work well.
	- [[Risk Register]] — to be updated with responses to stakeholder risks.
	- [[Stakeholder Register]] — is updated with [[Information]] as a result of monitoring [[Stakeholder Engagement]].