---
KnowledgeArea: "[[4 Integration Management]]"
ProcessGroup: "[[Closing]]"
ToolsTechniques:
  - "[[Document Analysis]]"
  - "[[Regression Analysis]]"
  - "[[Trend Analysis]]"
  - "[[Variance Analysis]]"
EEFs:
OPAs:
  - "[[Closure Guidelines or Requirements]]"
  - "[[Configuration Management Knowledge Base]]"
tags:
  - "#process"
TimesPerformed: "Once or at predefined points in the project"
Description: "[[4.7 Close project or phase#Description|📝]]"
Page: 121
Section: "4.7"
---
# Description
Finalizing all activities for the project, phase, or contract.
## Key Benefits
The project or phase information is archived, the planned work is completed, and organizational team resources are released to pursue new endeavors.
## Activities for the Administrative Closure
- To satisfy completion or exit criteria:
	- Making certain that all documents and deliverables are up-to-date and that all issues are resolved;
	- Confirming the delivery and formal acceptance of deliverables by the customer;
	- Ensuring that all costs are charged to the project; Closing project accounts;  
	- Reassigning personnel;
	- Dealing with excess project material;  
	- Reallocating project facilities, equipment, and other resources; and
	- Elaborating the final project reports as required by organizational policies.
- Completion of the contractual agreements:
	- Confirming the formal acceptance of the seller's work, Finalizing open claims,  
	- Updating records to reflect final results,
	- Archiving such information for future use.
- Activities needed to:
	- Collect project or phase records,  
	- Audit project success or failure,  
	- Manage knowledge sharing and transfer,  
	- Identify lessons learned, and  
	- Archive project information for future use by the organization.
- To transfer the project's products/services/results to the next phase/production/operations
- Collecting any suggestions for improving or updating the policies and procedures of the organization, and sending them to the appropriate organizational unit.
- Measuring stakeholder satisfaction.
# Inputs
## 4.7.1.1 [[Project Charter]]
## 4.7.1.2 [[Project Management Plan]]
## 4.7.1.3 Project Documents
- [[Assumption Log]]
- [[Basis of estimates]]
- [[Change Log]]
- [[Issue Log]]
- [[Lessons Learned Register]]
- [[Milestone list]]
- [[Project communications]]
- [[Quality control measurements]]
- [[Quality report]]
- [[Requirements documentation]]
- [[Risk register]]
- [[Risk report]]
## 4.7.1.4 Accepted [[Deliverables]]
## 4.7.1.5 Business Documents
- [[Business Case]]
- [[Benefits Management Plan]]
## 4.7.1.6 [[Agreements]]
## 4.7.1.7 [[Procurement Documentation]]
## 4.7.1.8 Organizational process assets
```dataview
TABLE WITHOUT ID rows.file.link as "OPAs", Category
FROM #opa
WHERE contains(this.OPAs, file.link)
GROUP BY Category
```
# Tools & techniques
```dataview
TABLE WITHOUT ID ToolAndTechniqueGroup as "Group", rows.file.link as "Tools & Techniques"
FROM #tool-technique
WHERE contains(this.ToolsTechniques, file.link)
GROUP BY ToolAndTechniqueGroup
```
## [[Expert Judgment]]
- [[Legislation and Regulations]]
- [[Legal and Procurement]]
- [[Audits]]
- [[Management Control]]
## [[Meetings]]
- [[Celebration]]
- [[Customer Wrap-Up]]
- [[Close-out Reporting]]
- [[Lessons Learned]]
# Outputs
## 4.7.3.1 [[Project Management Plan]] Updates
All project documents may be updated and marked as final versions as a result of project closure. Of particular interest is the [[Lessons Learned Register]], which is finalized to include final information on phase or project closure.
## 4.7.3.2 Final [[Product, Service, Result Transition]]
## 4.7.3.3 [[Final Report]]
## 4.7.3.4 OPAs Updates
- [[Project Documents]]
- [[Operational and Support Documents]]
- [[Closure Documents]]
- [[Lessons Learned Repository]]
