---
tags:
  - "evm"
  - "tool-technique/data-analysis"
---
# Description
Reviews the differences (or [[Variance]]) between planned and actual performance. This can include [[Duration Estimates]], [[Cost Estimates]], [[Resource]]s utilization, [[Resource]]s rates, technical performance, and other metrics.

May be conducted in each #pmbok6/knowledge-area based on its particular variables.
## In [[Earned Value Analysis|EVA]]
The explanation (cause, impact, and corrective actions) for cost ([[Cost Variance|CV]] = [[Earned Value|EV]] – [[Actual Cost|AC]]), schedule ([[Schedule Variance|SV]] = [[Earned Value|EV]] – [[Planned Value|PV]]), and [[Variance at Completion]] ([[Variance at Completion|VAC]] = [[Budget at Completion|BAC]] – [[Estimate at Completion|EAC]]) [[Variance]]s.
## Includes
### [[Schedule Variance]]
A measure of schedule performance expressed as the difference between the [[Earned Value|EV]] and the [[Planned Value|PV]]. It is the amount by which the [[Project]] is ahead or behind the planned delivery date, at a given point in time. It is a measure of schedule performance on a [[Project]]. It is equal to the [[Earned Value|EV]] minus the [[Planned Value|PV]]. [[Schedule Variance|SV]] is a useful metric in that it can indicate when a [[Project]] is falling behind or is ahead of its [[Schedule Baseline]]. [[Schedule Variance|SV]] will ultimately equal zero when the [[Project]] is completed because all of the [[Planned Value|PV]]s will have been earned. [[Schedule Variance|SV]] is best used in conjunction with [[Critical Path Method]] scheduling and [[11 Risk Management|Risk Management]]. Equation: [[Schedule Variance|SV]] = [[Earned Value|EV]] – [[Planned Value|PV]].
### [[Cost Variance]]
The amount of [[Budget]] deficit or surplus at a given point in time, expressed as the difference between [[Earned Value|EV]] and the [[Actual Cost|AC]]. It is a measure of cost performance on a project. It is equal to the [[Earned Value|EV]] minus the [[Actual Cost|AC]]. The [[Cost Variance|CV]] at the end of the project will be the difference between the [[Budget at Completion|BAC]] and the actual amount spent. The [[Cost Variance|CV]] is particularly critical because it indicates the relationship of physical performance to the costs spent. Negative [[Cost Variance|CV]] is often difficult for the project to recover. Equation: [[Cost Variance|CV]] = [[Earned Value|EV]] – [[Actual Cost|AC]].
### [[Schedule Performance Index]]
A measure of schedule efficiency expressed as the ratio of [[Earned Value|EV]] to [[Planned Value|PV]]. It measures how efficiently the project team is accomplishing the work. It is sometimes used in conjunction with the [[Cost Performance Index|CPI]] to [[Forecast]] the final project completion estimates. An [[Schedule Performance Index|SPI]] value less than 1.0 indicates less work was completed than was planned. An [[Schedule Performance Index|SPI]] greater than 1.0 indicates that more work was completed than was planned. Since the [[Schedule Performance Index|SPI]] measures all project work, the performance on the [[Critical Path]] also needs to be analyzed to determine whether the project will finish ahead of or behind its planned [[Finish Date]]. The [[Schedule Performance Index|SPI]] is equal to the ratio of the EV to the PV. Equation: [[Schedule Performance Index|SPI]] = [[Earned Value|EV]] / [[Planned Value|PV]].
### [[Cost Performance Index]] 
A measure of the cost efficiency of budgeted [[Resource]]s, expressed as a ratio of [[Earned Value|EV]] to [[Actual Cost|AC]]. It is considered the most critical [[Earned Value Analysis|EVA]] metric and measures the cost efficiency for the work completed. A [[Cost Performance Index|CPI]] value of less than 1.0 indicates a cost overrun for work completed. A [[Cost Performance Index|CPI]] value greater than 1.0 indicates a cost underrun of performance to date. The [[Cost Performance Index|CPI]] is equal to the ratio of the [[Earned Value|EV]] to the [[Actual Cost|AC]]. Equation: [[Cost Performance Index|CPI]] = [[Earned Value|EV]] / [[Actual Cost|AC]].
